# DRAFT: first joint-com with Leto.legal

## 1/3 - problem statement

### Privacy = Trust

- lack of users-control over their sensitive data
- any companies has to ensure customer-trust against their data control rights
- good UX
- trust = retention
- anticipate = following good practices = hard

and this is why...

### Legislation (RGPD, etc.)

- Regulation is too complex to be understood by all the stakeholders
- lack of time to maintain proofs of compliance for: public authorities, or corporate customers, or even investors.
- Lacking the right workflow to manage Data Subject Requests
- Privacy is perceive as a constraint instead of value added

## 2/3 - two complementary approaches

### blindnet

- generic & dev oriented
  - Helping developers build trustworthy applications through privacy.
  - DevKit: accompany your team to build privacy-by-design applications with minimal effort and maximal security
    - additional components connecting with your stack
    - doesn't require to rethink/rebuild the whole application
  - generic: not bound to a specific legislation
    - good practices over compliance
  - blindnet.dev

### Leto.legal

- automated RGPD compliance
  - AI powered secured and automated data mapping
  - comes ON TOP of your pre-existing stack
  - Ongoing maintenance of your compliance proofs
  - For your governance, a seamless iterative framework to follow
  - Easy collaboration between peers
  - leto.legal

## 3/3 - collaboration

### complementary

- covers full spectrum
  - anticipate with blindnet
  - control with Leto.legal
  - both at any dev step

### Interoperability

- both defining open standards

  - [PRIV](https://github.com/blindnet-io/product-management/tree/main/refs/schemas/priv)
    - blindnet's PRIV (Privacy Request Interchange Vocabulary) is an easy-to-use taxonomy of tags - an entry point to the a whole world of automation.
    It allows to connect an existing system with blindnet's knowledge base and rule engines in oder to deliver the ultimate privacy experience.
    - While UROPA focusses on Record of Processing Activities (RoPA) PRIV is focused on Privacy Requests and Responses to them. It is complementary.
    - UROPA does not define a taxonomy of data-categories, so PRIV terms can be used as values of UROPA properties. If this is done, blindnet devkit can take UROPA records as input, and use it to further deliver automation (as given in examples [here](https://github.com/blindnet-io/devrel-management/blob/main/docs/use-cases/insurance.md))
    
  - [UROPA](https://github.com/uropa-project/uropa)
    - UROPA is a machine readable ROPA (Registry of Processing Activity)
    - In one way (from dev to DPO), it ensure that the ROPA is always up to date with the reality of the field. Example: how data is protected thanks to PRIV.
    - In the other way (from DPO to dev), thanks to a format that is readable by machines (and devs), UROPA makes sure that tech is implemented in a compliant way. Example: data duration expiration.

- In the open (call to action: contribute and follow)
  - blindnet
    - [open org](https://github.com/blindnet-io/openness-framework)
    - [open source](https://github.com/blindnet-io/)
  - Leto.legal
    - [open source](https://github.com/uropa-project/uropa)
    - [best practices](https://www.leto.legal/guides-rgpd)

Teaser: stay tuned - joint efforts - many to come
